You know, I really don't like those demos where there is no good writing and all the code has already
been written, but unfortunately this is one of those demos because it's rather complicated.
And the reason why it's rather complicated is because I've managed to rip this out of a commercial product.
So this is actual production code as opposed to something wishy washy, although it's a production code
that I have to cut down very significantly to explain some of the ideas.
So we are talking about the interpreter design pattern and to a degree about the visitor design pattern
as well.
And let me outline the problem that this chunk of code is trying to solve.
So let's suppose that we want to define mathematical expressions in XML like here.
So here you see there is a math tag and then there is a plus and two values, two and three.
So we're trying to do two plus three.
And in actual fact, this is a valid language.
This is a language called Matha Mel, which is used behind the scenes in many mathematical editors,
including the Microsoft Equation editor, which if you include formulae in Microsoft Word, for example,
you can output you can grab the output as math Amelle.
So this is the kind of text that we intend to interpret them.
We want to have the interpretive design pattern, but it's also going to be mapped onto something more
complicated than what we've seen before, because what we want to do is we want to map these things
onto cases of a the union.
And you can see that unión right here.
So we have a type called expression, which is a discriminated union.
And you can either have a math which contains a bunch of expressions.
So this is the top-level element or you can have a plus which has a left hand side and the right hand
side.
And you can see an example here.
So here is a plus and here is the left hand side and here is the right hand side.
And you can have a value in this case that would be two or three.
So we want to somehow map this text onto this discriminated union.
And also notice here we have self-doubt VAO, which basically evaluates the thing.
So if it's a value, we just return that value cast to an end.
If it is a plus, then we add up the left and right hand side.
Don't forget, we have to evaluate them, first of all.
And if it's the whole math thing, then we just evaluate whatever is the first element, which is Abdulahad.
Remember, M is a list.
So the first element of the list is called head.
That's what we evaluate.
So when we evaluate math, we essentially evaluate the plus and we return the plus.
So this is how you would define the structure and this is how you would define the code.
The problem is how do you glue those things together?
Because you want to somehow automatically make a mapping between the name of the tag here.
This is an XML tag and you want to map this XML tag to this particular discriminated union case.
Now, the trick to do this is to pre compute the constructors for the different union cases.
Now, here is the actual process in action.
So this is basically reflection but reflection for the functional programming side, reflection for
the F sharp side of things.
So it's not the kind of reflection you see in CCAR, but it's very similar.
So first of all, we can use FSR time to get all the union cases.
So we take an expression and we get all the union cases and then we do something clever.
For every single one of those cases, we recompute the union constructor so we pre compute the constructor
for that particular element of the discriminated union.
So we pre computer constructor for math and constructor for plus a constructor for value and so on and
so forth.
And of course as we do this, we have to take into account the fact that these things actually take
additional arguments.
So the plus is composed of a left and right hand sides, the value is composed of a value and so on
and so forth.
So we have to pre compute it in all of these cases.
Now, what you see here in the recursive build function is a rather complicated way of making these
cases dependent upon the parameters that we have passed from XML, because what we want to be able to
do is we want to be able to pass this particular chunk of XML and actually automatically turn it into
a discriminated union agglomeration if you want.
So how is this done?
Well, it's done down here.
So let's take a look at how the whole thing can work.
How can we actually read the XML and how can we turn it into something meaningful?
So here we take the text, which is that chunk of XML I've shown you.
We create an example reader from that and then an XML document.
So X document load.
Now this is from system XML dot link I believe.
So this is a fairly, fairly obvious stuff, but this is where interesting things happen.
So we take the root of the document, which is of course that math thing, and we call recursive build
on it.
So recursive build is that scary function that we looked at, which takes a root X element.
And then we do some stuff to that element.
Of course, what we do depends on, for example, whether it has any inner.
Elements, whether it has any arguments and so on and so forth, so it's a rather complicated procedure
that is happening here.
However, the result of this procedure is you end up with a discriminating union case, which inside
itself contains all the other cases.
So this is what you get when you actually pass the whole thing.
And then, of course, we can print the past result, but we can also evaluate the result.
Now, remember, evaluation is basically the calculation of the whole thing.
So if you've got the overall math element, you just evaluated the head.
If you've got a plus, you can evaluate the left hand side plus the right hand side.
And it's also possible to do it via a member like this so you can do Seftel value instead.
So those two possibilities are available to you.
So this is essentially a demonstration of the visitor design pattern because we are traversing a structure.
And while we do this, we kind of evaluate the the different elements here.
Of course, we have it in we are doing it in a recursive way.
So when you call even your left hand side, you may end up here once again or you may end up here.
So it's all going to be a larger cause of call, which is why there is no separate variable for the
result of the calculation.
So we keep the calculation on the stack as we do to recursion to to sort of calculate this whole thing.
Well, that recursion in some cases, and then we can actually output both the result of the past structure.
So we pass the numeric expression.
It should be should be able to say two plus three, and then we can also calculate its value.
So let's actually run this.
Let's take a look at what the output is.
Nothing particularly groundbreaking will be happening here.
We just see that two plus three is equal to five.
But the implementation itself is rather interesting and quite different to what you have in C Sharp.
So the difference is just to outline the differences once again.
First of all, we use discriminated unions.
So that is a structure which behind the scenes, of course, it just uses ordinary inheritance and whatnot.
But in terms of the usability, it's a bit more usable than working with hierarchies of classes.
In C Sharp, the discriminated union basically gets populated with the result.
With the past result of the XML, there is some magic with like reflexion type magic for computing the
union constructors just to make things a bit faster and then plenty of work to make sure that we pass
everything correctly, regardless of the number of arguments that this thing has.
And of course we do it recursively.
So here, if we have a bunch of values inside the tag, then we recursively build those elements as
well and we kind of assign them all.
And there is some, you know, some box invocations here and whatnot.
So you're welcome to actually download this code and simply analyze it because I'm not going to go through
it.
It's really not important to our particular discussion, because all I'm trying to show here is that
there is this alternative approach to building, first of all, interpreters in the sense that you can
pass not into just a disjoined bunch of classes, inheriting everything from classes, but a kind of
integrated structure that you can subsequently do pattern matching on.
So this is not a useful thing.
So you match against a particular expression.
And of course, every single case of the discriminated union has a bunch of arguments and you can sort
of examine those arguments and do something to them.
Now, C Sharp is kind of catching up to that in the sense that you see sharp, you can do very similar
things right now, but in F sharp, it's a bit more natural, it's a bit more succinct.
So that is something that you might want to consider if you were building an application in C Sharp,
for example.
But part of an application needs to do passing.
You might want to consider just using F sharp just for this particular purposes, the purpose.
So parsing some expression, building a tree out of it and traversing that tree, so long as you don't
have to expose that tree to the c sharp side of things, everything is OK.
If you do have to expose it, then you start seeing problems, because as soon as you start projecting
code from F sharp to C sharp, you get not incompatibilities, but you get sort of impedance mismatches
because obviously the syntax is different.
The way you work with constructs is different.
So you're not going to be able to work with a discriminated union.
Cases succinctly from C Sharp, you probably know that already.
So that is another approach that I wanted to demonstrate how to leverage the interpretive pattern as
well as the visitor pattern as well.
So pattern matching an F sharp is great for implementing the visitor pattern.
And of course the ideas is different.
You typically rely on recursion.
You typically rely on calling yourself once again from inside that pattern.
And there obviously there is additional depth to the pattern support in F sharp.
So, for example, there are partial patterns and recursive partial patterns and whatnot.
So this is something that is worth investigating if you have this particular problem in your application.